---
layout: post
title: "Quit Early, Quit Often"
tags:
- Quitting
categories:
- Learn
thumbnail_path: blog/personal/iQuit.png
---

Quitting is most often talked about as a negative thing. You'd often hear people say - ‘Quitters never win’ or ‘Don’t give up so easily’ or 'Be a yes-man and say yes to life'. This blog post provides a contrary view to this line of thought.

{% include figure.html path="blog/personal/iQuit.png" alt="Quit Early, Quit Often" %} 

1. **Quit because it sucks not because it is hard** - Sometimes differentiating between the two maybe hard and this is what that makes quitting a hard decision. Ask yourself - *Are you really excited about this?* or *Is this really what you want to be doing?*. If your answer is no, then quit. Don't justify to yourself why you should continue doing what you've started - it could be right for everyone else around you, but not you!

2. **Pivot** - One of the reason, quitting sounds so negative is that people usually associate quitting with 'quit and do nothing' whereas, pivoting is a more positive way to look at it - 'quit something you don't like and do something that you like' - it doesn't sound so bad now, does it?

3. **Quitting is not for the weak** - Quitting usually takes strength - even more than perseverance. This could happen in a couple of scenarios - 

	1. Quitting something that is boring and safe to start something risky but more exciting.
	2. Quitting something you're passionate about that didn't work out.

4. **Empathy** - While quitting might be hard for you, understand that it could be hard for the people around you too. Try to see the world with gentler eyes and try explaining your situation to them. 

Saying no to the things that don’t matter would allow you to say yes to ones that actually do (too cliched but couldn't resist!!).

*source* - Deepak Malhotra's speech to students at Harvard Business School

{% include iframe-figure.html url="//www.youtube.com/embed/D73mm29XXAw" caption="Deepak Malhotra's speech to students at Harvard Business School" link="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D73mm29XXAw" %}