---
layout: post
title: "Product Review - Waze"
tags:
- Product
categories:
- Learn
thumbnail_path: blog/personal/waze.jpg
---

I first heard good things about Waze through [this](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/what-makes-truly-great-product-jeff-weiner) blog post by Jeff Weiner about a year ago. However, until recently, I've never been a user of any of the GPS/Mapping apps - I've lived long enough in this area to and I tend to listen to music or talk to friends during drives. However, Waze recently introduced a couple of new features that got my attention and I've already become a daily Waze user!

{% include figure.html path="blog/personal/waze.jpg" alt="Waze" %}

**Planning a Drive**

Last Thanksgiving, I was flying out of the Stockton Metropolitan airport - roughly 90 minutes drive from my place. Due to the holiday season, the traffic is usally a lot worse and I constantly kept checking how much time in advance I need to leave so that I can reach on time despite the traffic. (It turned out to be a 3 hour drive!!). At that time, I was wishing Google Maps or Waze could automate this for me and a few months later - they do!!

{% include figure.html path="blog/personal/waze-plan.jpg" alt="Waze Plan" %}

If I want to reach office on time for a 10 AM meeting, Waze keeps checking the traffic and prompts me when I need to leave home so that I reach office by 10 AM. Simple, intuitive and genius!

**Sharing Your drive**

This feature lets you share your drive to other people (even if they're not on Waze!) in *realtime*. As you drive to the destination, the people to whom you've shared the drive can see your current location and track your ETA.

My first reaction after seeing this was - *what took them so long to implement this!*. This makes the co-ordination among multiple people who are meeting at the same destination so much easier! I'm not sure if Waze have an enterprise version but if they do, I could also see this being monetized for businesses like Truck Fleet Management, Postal Services and the likes.

{% include figure.html path="blog/personal/waze-share.jpg" alt="Waze Share" %}

I've always wondered why there have not been any feature improvements in Navigation for a long time (Google Maps had turn by turn navigation in October 2009)! Maybe all it takes is a Product Manager who cares about reaching your destination on time :)

In the last few months we've had Waze introduce 2 cool features and Google Maps introducing the ability to search for locations along your drive. I hope there's more coming!