---
layout: post
title: "Gifts"
tags:
- gift
categories:
- Explore
thumbnail_path: blog/personal/gift.jpg
---

Over the weekend I was discussing **gift ideas** with a friend of mine. This conversation reminded me about the numerous occasions in the past when I had the intention of gifting but didn't do so due to the lack of a good gift idea. I thought about this for a few minutes and wanted to have a cheat-sheet that I can use in the future and thus this blog-post.

{% include figure.html path="blog/personal/giftQuote2.jpg" alt="Gift Quotes" %}

**Utility Gifts** - This involves the hard task of finding what your friend needs and subtracting that with what your friend already has and intersecting that with what fits in your budget! I feel these are the most tricky ones (especially if you don't directly ask your friend for ideas). Some things that have helped me to find gifts in past - 

* Some occasions naturally make it easier to give utility gifts - like a house warming party or a baby shower.

* Gift items that you would *like* the other person to use - if you'd like your friend to be fit, gift them a Fitbit.

* It helps a lot if you know your friend very well (that way you don't have to *try to* secretly extract information from them about the things they have or need)

**Personalized Gifts** - Things that quickly come to my mind are customized posters, hand-written letters or gift cards and photo albums. You might want to check Pinterest for more creative ideas.

**Gift Cards** - The most safest option is a gift card - when you want to play it really safe or when you ran out of ideas or if you don't know your friend really well or if you just want to ensure that your friend uses your gift.

**Re-gifting** - In this scenario, you're pretty much forced to gift - like say when you attend a wedding or a birthday party but you're not too keen on putting a lot of thought into the gift. John Oliver has covered this topic in depth in his video - The Art of Re-gifting.

{% include iframe-figure.html url="//www.youtube.com/embed/GjatG8QFoOk" caption="John Oliver on Recycling gifts!" link="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GjatG8QFoOk" %} 

Happy Gifting!